README.md, before:

# StanceClassifier
Stance Classifier for the WeVerify project

This is a re-implementation of Aker et al. (2017) ["Simple Open Stance Classification for Rumour Analysis"](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1708.05286.pdf). We replaced the Bag-of-words and BROWN features with [GloVe embeddings](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/) (twitter embeddings with 200 dimensions). 

## Configuration
1) Requirements:

        python3.7
        nltk
        numpy
        scipy
        sklearn
    
        Get Vader lexicon: 
        `python -m nltk.downloader vader_lexicon`

2) Clone this repository

3) Download the [resources](http://staffwww.dcs.shef.ac.uk/people/C.Scarton/resources.tar.gz) required for feature extraction and extract it inside the main folder (`StanceClassifer`)

## Usage

### Basic usage
```
python -m StanceClassifier -l <LANGUAGE> -s <ORIGINAL_JSON> -o <REPLY_JSON> -c <MODEL>
```
    Supported languages: en
    Supported models: 
        rf (Random Forest)
        mlp (Multi-layer perceptron)
        lr (Logistic Regression)
        svm (Support Vector Machines)

    The output is a class:
        0.0 = support
        1.0 = deny
        2.0 = query
        3.0 = comment

    and a vector with the probabilities returned for each class.

    The folder `examples` contains examples of original tweets and replies:
        original_old and reply_old are examples of the old JSON files (140 characters)
        original_new and reply_new are examples of the new JSON files (280 characters)

### `StanceClassifer` class (StanceClassifier.stance_classifier.StanceClassifier)
This is the main class in this project. If you want to add this project as part of your own project, you should import this class.




### Deployed server

#### Flask, WSGI & Unicorn server
Flask version of the HTTP server can be found the in `flask_server.py` module.

#### Deploy/Run instructions

Starting the service:
```
sudo start stance-classifier
```

Stopping the service:
```
sudo stop stance classifier
```

The server is deployed on `gateservice10.gate.ac.uk` at port `9125`. The service starts using the script:
```
./run_stance_classifier_server.sh
``` 

Upstart logs can be found at `/var/log/upstart/stance-classifier.log`



### Server usage
We have implemented TCP and HTTP servers. Server parameters are defined in the `configurations.txt` file.

To run the TCP server:
```
python Run_TCP_StanceClassifier_Server.py
```

Testing the TCP server:
```
python Test_Run_TCP_StanceClassifier_Server.py
```

The HTTP server uses a TCP server already running:
```
python Run_HTTP_StanceClassifier_Server.py
```

To test the HTTP server:
```
python Test_Run_HTTP_StanceClassifier_Server.py
```

### Training new models
To train new models, you can edit `train_model.py` (more support will be given in the future). To run:
```
python train_model.py
```

Commit message:

Updated readme about upstart & utf-8

README.md, after:

# StanceClassifier
Stance Classifier for the WeVerify project

This is a re-implementation of Aker et al. (2017) ["Simple Open Stance Classification for Rumour Analysis"](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1708.05286.pdf). We replaced the Bag-of-words and BROWN features with [GloVe embeddings](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/) (twitter embeddings with 200 dimensions). 

## Configuration
1) Requirements:

        python3.7
        nltk
        numpy
        scipy
        sklearn
    
        Get Vader lexicon: 
        `python -m nltk.downloader vader_lexicon`

2) Clone this repository

3) Download the [resources](http://staffwww.dcs.shef.ac.uk/people/C.Scarton/resources.tar.gz) required for feature extraction and extract it inside the main folder (`StanceClassifer`)

## Usage

### Basic usage
```
python -m StanceClassifier -l <LANGUAGE> -s <ORIGINAL_JSON> -o <REPLY_JSON> -c <MODEL>
```
    Supported languages: en
    Supported models: 
        rf (Random Forest)
        mlp (Multi-layer perceptron)
        lr (Logistic Regression)
        svm (Support Vector Machines)

    The output is a class:
        0.0 = support
        1.0 = deny
        2.0 = query
        3.0 = comment

    and a vector with the probabilities returned for each class.

    The folder `examples` contains examples of original tweets and replies:
        original_old and reply_old are examples of the old JSON files (140 characters)
        original_new and reply_new are examples of the new JSON files (280 characters)

### `StanceClassifer` class (StanceClassifier.stance_classifier.StanceClassifier)
This is the main class in this project. If you want to add this project as part of your own project, you should import this class.




### Deployed server

#### Flask, WSGI & Unicorn server
Flask version of the HTTP server can be found the in `flask_server.py` module.

#### Deploy/Run instructions

Starting the service:
```
sudo start stance-classifier
```

Stopping the service:
```
sudo stop stance classifier
```

The server is deployed on `gateservice10.gate.ac.uk` at port `9125`. The service starts using the script:
```
./run_stance_classifier_server.sh
``` 

Upstart logs can be found at `/var/log/upstart/stance-classifier.log`

**Note:** Upstart was giving ascii decode error for printing and opening files, it was down to not having the 
`LANG=en_GB.UTF-8` environment variable set. This has been added to the run script.

### Server usage
We have implemented TCP and HTTP servers. Server parameters are defined in the `configurations.txt` file.

To run the TCP server:
```
python Run_TCP_StanceClassifier_Server.py
```

Testing the TCP server:
```
python Test_Run_TCP_StanceClassifier_Server.py
```

The HTTP server uses a TCP server already running:
```
python Run_HTTP_StanceClassifier_Server.py
```

To test the HTTP server:
```
python Test_Run_HTTP_StanceClassifier_Server.py
```

### Training new models
To train new models, you can edit `train_model.py` (more support will be given in the future). To run:
```
python train_model.py
```
